One of the most important days in the history of mankind was November 20, 1694, when a puny, sickly, ugly child was born of humble parents who afterwards called himself "Voltaire." This anemic and cynically-faced individual made the time in which he lived momentous. The period might well be called the "Age of Voltaire." In fact Victor Hugo said that to name Voltaire was to characterize the entire eighteenth century. For just as surely as the geological periods in the earth's history have left their stratified imprint on the earth's formation, so the work and influence of Voltaire are unmistakably impressed upon the progress and intellectual development of mankind. And just as the monsters who once roamed the earth are buried in layers beneath the earth's surface and reveal the age in which they lived, so the crumbling of the Roman Catholic Church marks the period of Voltaire.

Let's see what happens in case of lengths less than FOLDLEN.

When Voltaire was born, the condition of the French people was most pitiful. It had been so for many generations, and there appeared little prospect of an amelioration of this tragic condition. Misery, poverty, ignorance, and tyranny held the people in a viselike grip. No ray of light penetrated their dark and gloomy existence. There was no hope however remote to buoy up their depressed and sunken spirits. They seemed doomed to this frightful condition to this perpetual slavery. They despaired of any change for the better and resigned themselves and their lot in life to the divine plan. If "God" so willed it, it should be so. It was easy for priests to tell them that God's ways were beyond their understanding, and that whatever was, was best.

If by any chance there arose a rebellious spirit who dared to raise his head and lift his voice in behalf of his fellow slaves, instruments worthy of the Inquisition were put to effective use. And make no mistake about the effectiveness of those instruments of torture. They nearly always accomplished their purpose. And what was left undone by them was undertaken by religious fanaticism, with all the hatred and vindictiveness that this blind and hateful passion can accomplish. The mass of people lived in serfdom. The country was dominated by priest and king -- a sinister combination of ignorance and tyranny. Superstition intermingled with brutality. It is difficult to conceive of conditions more intolerable.

Even if some form of economic justice, some method of lifting the burden of poverty from the backs of the people had been proposed, there stood on guard against such change (more menacing than any other single condition), the arm of Catholicism known as the Society of Jesus -- the partisans of a creed, says Morley, in whose name more human blood has been violently shed than in any other cause whatever. An economic change without a corresponding advance in their mental condition would in any case have proved futile or of only temporary value.

The people were so subservient to the church that no possible amelioration in their living conditions could have been effected until they had been liberated, in some degree, from the religious thraldom in which they were held. The benefits they would have received from better economic conditions would have been taken from them by the church.

- From "Voltaire, The Incomparable Infidel" by Joseph Lewis
